Terms used in ert
=================

Why is anyone using ert in the first place?
-------------------------------------------
TLDR example; Geologists use ERT to create multiple guesses/simulations of reality (ensembles), which they then compare to better reason about how things really are in subsurface reservoirs. It is possible to understand what parameters/realizations/ensembles are, and how they are used without understanding the specifics of the kalman filter.

Slightly longer explanation: Ert is used to estimate multiple **uncertain** quantities, each quantity denoted as a parameter. These parameters are never fully known, but they are known with *some uncertainty*. In simplified terms, ert will make concrete guesses for parameters, then run some simulations and refine those guesses. A set of guesses is referred to as a realization, and a set of realizations is encapsulated as an ensemble. If we look at the whole ensemble of realizations, it gives a better idea of what the true value of the parameter might be.

Parameter
---------
A parameter is a numeric quantity we are trying to estimate. When we try to estimate a parameter we always know a little bit about it, but with some uncertainty. For example, we can't say for sure that it is 10 degrees outside, but we might be able to say it is 10 degrees +/- 2 degrees outside. Specified with GEN_KW.

Realization
-----------
A realization contains specific "realized" numeric values for multiple parameters. I.e., it now gives concrete values to parameters. In other words, a realization can be seen as an educated guess of what reality looks like. Example: If we know the temperature outside is 10 degrees +/- 2 degrees, some "realizations" of this can be that it is 8 degrees, 8.5 degrees, 11 degrees, 12 degrees, 10.5 degrees and so on. A realization of N parameters will thus contain N "guesses" of what those numbers might be, within the constraints of our uncertainty model.

Ensembles
---------
When we run ERT, it creates one or more ensembles. Each ensemble is nothing more than a set of realizations. The most important ensemble to remember is the prior ensemble. This is the first ensemble that is sampled from our specified parameters. Ert then generates new ensembles, each ensemble based on the one generated before. The first created ensemble is always called the prior, and corresponds to iteration 0. The last ensemble 

Iteration (maybe revise to something like "ensemble index")
---------
This denotes the "index" of the ensembles and is tied to the iteration of the ert run. It is a very general term used for many other things, but in this case it refers to which iteration of the ensemble kalman filter the ensemble pertains to. The iteration essentially describes in which order ensembles were generated.

Experiment
----------
An experiment refers to all results of running an experiment in ert once. The run results will always be a set of ensembles. An experiment can be thought of as an attempt to predict/simulate/guess the reality based on data collected from various measurements.

The Ert storage
---------------
The ert storage contains the data used by ert while computing simulations (storage/runpath) and all the experiments and ensembles generated by it (storage/ensemble).

GEN_KW
------
Refers to a **parameter** given to ert. It gives ert a distribution from which it can sample numeric values when creating realizations.

GEN_DATA
--------
Refers to a file output by the forward model. The name may be anything, but the file contents always respect the following format: One number per line.
It only affects the simulation if it is pointed to by some observation. For example ...

The matrix S
------------
When running ert, all data is assimilated into the matrix S. Each row corresponds to one realization, and each column corresponds to (???)

